---
layout: page
title: Discussion - CI
permalink: /lecture-notes/14-ci
parent: Calendar
nav_order: 9
---
# Discussion: Continuous Integration
These notes roughly capture the (mostly unedited) comments from the class:

## Summary of opinions and perceptions
Tradeoffs in CI: significance
* Not very: 3
* Unsure: 6
* Very: 10
Are these tradeoffs that could already be known in the small?
Tradeoffs in CI: Empirically sound
Not very: 0
* Unsure: 11
* Very: 8
Taming Google CI: significance within google?
Not very: 0 
* Unsure: 4
* Very: 15
Taiming Google CI: significance outside of google?
Not very:2
* Unsure: 10
* Very: 7

## Tradeoffs in CI
* Methodology
	* Interviews
		* 16 participants
		* Open-ended
		* Coded results
	* Survey
		* Broad population: distribute on twitter, Facebook, reddit
		* Focused population: Target developers at pivotal

Barriers & ideas
* Troubleshooting CI build failures
	* Some may have nothing to do with CI itself
	* Something that makes debugging CI easier: being able to reproduce same environment, and/or connect to it
* Overly long build times
	* Coffee break, lunch break, sleep break, weekend, winter break
	* Developer approach: ignore some unlikely to fail tests
	* "Regression test selection": Compute for each test: which statements it covers 
* Automating the build process
* Lack of support for desired workflow
	* What is organizational culture to build support for these kinds of workflows? Tied to awareness of what CI can perform
	* Today: GitHub actions workflow.yml, action.yml
* Security and access control:
	* Access to "secrets" (aka API key)
		* Vulnerability: secret is publicly readable
		* Vulnerability/attack path: untrusted code could be merged in and have access to that secret

Needs:
* Easier configuration of CI servers or services
	* Bamboo :'(
	* There is usually a big range of skills needed between the technology that is being tested and the technology used for testing
* Better tool integration
	* "There are probably CIs that already do that, but ours doesn't"
* Better container/virtualization support
* Debugging assistance
* UI for modifying CI configs
* Better notifications
	* "I get 10 emails and I delete them immediately"
* Making it easier to onboard new users to the platform
	* How to extend existing workflows and create new ones
	* If the process is bad enough, then no tool can help you. Bad practices in dev processes get baked into CI processes get baked into CI tools.
	* What is the current state of best-practices in CI?

Discussion
* Any surprising insights, even given past 5 years time?
	* Using CI might be the difference between people actually running the tests and it not happening
* Security restriction in CI tools
	* The workarounds that devs use for running systems and debugging them in CI are not optimal...


## Taming Google Scale Continuous Testing
* Bazel
* Monorepo
* Declare dependencies on other modules
* When going to test module A, collect all "affected" modules of module A, run their tests
* Commits -> "changelist"

* "Milestones" optimize when to choose to run which tests
* Frequently modified source files are more often to be involved in test breakages
	* "You are modifying a file that was modified 41 times in the past. The probability that you will cause a breakage is 75%."
	* Maybe for these files, you go deeper in dependency graph
	* Does separating them into smaller components reduce the impact of this?
	* Maybe you run these more often.
	* More defect-inducing files should be less likely to put into same milestone 
* What are the unknown unknowns (the causes of the failures?)
* Impressed by the number of bugs found by downstream test running
